#summary AutoPofSerializer

= Introduction =
Coherence POF wire format requires {{{pof-config.xml}}} which should include all serializable classes (including filters, entry processors etc).

Using this file Coherence can avoid using full class names in binary stream (though [http://download.oracle.com/docs/cd/E18686_01/coh.37/e18683/com/tangosol/io/pof/SafeConfigurablePofContext.html SafeConfigurablePofContext] can use both IDs and full class names).

ReflectionPofSerializer will allow you to serialize most normal POJO and collections but it is still requiring to put every single class to {{{pof-config.xml}}}

{{{AutoPofSerializer}}} works by automatically generating class to ID mapping in runtime. It is using {{{pof-config.xml}}} but if class is not present it will generate new ID and share it with other nodes using ... guest what ... special Coherence cache.

With {{{AutoPofSerializer}}} you have just to configure it for cache ...
{{{
<distributed-scheme>
    ...
    <serializer>
        <class-name>org.gridkit.coherence.utils.pof.AutoPofSerializer</class-name>
    </serializer>
    ...
</distributed-scheme>
}}}
... and it should work.

{{{AutoPofSerializer}}} will automatically serialize all objects implementing {{{PortableObject}}} and all others using {{{ReflectionPofSerializer}}} ({{{java.lang.Throwable}} is a special case, Java built-in serialization is used for expections).


= Limitations =
 * Works only with Java
 * All nodes should have same version of code base

= Using {{{AutoPofSerializer}}} with Coherence*Extends =
{{{AutoPofSerializer}}} could work with extend, but more complicated configuration id required.
See samples in unit tests.
