#summary Coherence-Search core API overview

[CoherenceCustomIndexOverview Coherence custom index overview] provides some insight of how to implement custom index in Coherence.

Implementing index is quite tricky, Coherence-Search core module aims to abstract away Coherence specific quirks and provided simple API for creation of custom indexes.

= Creating custom index with Coherence-Search =
Coherence-Search abstracts all index operation behind single interface {{{PlugableSearchIndex}}}. {{{PlugableSearchIndex}}} is intended to be stateless helper class. Also Coherence-Search provides another class {{{SearchFactory}}}, this class serves as a factory to hide all {{{extractors/filters}}} complexity from you. {{{SearchFactory}}} implements generic {{{IndexAwareExtractor}}}, {{{MapIndex}}} and {{{IndexAwareFilter}}} classes. These generic implementations delegate actual work to {{{PlugableSearchIndex}}} instance.
=== Index compatibility token ===
If you will have multiple custom indexes, filter needs to distinguish its index from other custom indexes. It is done by defining *index compatibility token* object.
Note what only one instance of index can exists per one token. 
=== Handling binary keys ===
Coherence-Search handles binary/object inconsistency for keys and other helper method which allows {{{PlugableSearchIndex}}} to convert key to binary, object or form native for cache.
=== Delayed update queue ===
Coherence-Search implements delayed index update to ensure efficiency of complex indexes (e.g. full text). Update queue parameters can be configured via {{{SearchFactory}}} before creation of index.
=== Sample ===
{{{
public class Sample {

	NamedCache cache;
	
	public void init() {
		// plugin for n-gram index
		NGramIndexPlugin plugin = new NGramIndexPlugin();

		// create index factory for "toString" attribute using n-gram index plugin with n-gram size 3
		SearchFactory<NGramIndex, Integer, String> nGramSearchFactory = new SearchFactory<NGramIndex, Integer, String>(plugin, 3, new ReflectionExtractor("toString"));

		// initialize index
		nGramSearchFactory.createIndex(cache);
		
		// query by n-gram index, looking to every object containing substring "text"
		cache.keySet(nGramSearchFactory.createFilter("text"));
		
	}
}
}}}
=== Serialization considerations ===
TODO

